## Overview
I want to build a musical sequencer platform. The key idea is to create a sequencer skeleton library. In this library, we can cover aspects like:
- Organizing steps into patterns and tracks;
- Customizing musical parameters of each step, such as note pitch, velocity, gate length and gate status;
- Ability to create polyrithmic rythms, with tools like setting a track's playback clock division
- Change the BPM
- Add randomisation to different parameters within a sequence
- Reorganise the sequence patterns 
- Follow scales within patterns for given steps
- Adding effects to the steps
- Save snapshots...

I think how good step sequencers should work, what features it should have, can be based on the docs/ folder from famous sequencers I added here in .pdf.

The interesting part for us can come in in form of making the sequence controlling itself interesting, as we build this on the Grid modular controller platform.

What Grid is: we are using luaVM on ESP32 microcontrollers to build MIDI controllers, which can be freely programmable in lua and there are control elements like hall-effect key switches, endless encoders, potentiometers and faders. We also have a larger jog-wheel and a screen available for controlling sequences. 

It would be a very interesting option to have the sequencer engine and then have easily callable functions from the different human interactions done with the controller. Think of 16 key switches, where each key switch has button event, which can be hooked up with a function to turn a given step on or off on the currently selected track, which would be selected on the control VSN1 screen module.

The VSN1 module we have, where there is 1 endless jog wheel, 8 key switches, 4 small buttons under the screen and the screen can be a center piece controller, and a device which could render menu and other information.

### About the VSN1 screen

The VSN1 module has and LCD screen with 320x240px size. The screen refresh has to be carefully done, as we can get into buffering issues. If we try to update simultenously a lot of things at high speed, that can be laggy. Still, we should figure out a good menu option and the views which we can reload.

### About Grid's timer

Grid uses a timer event which can be started and then it can restart itself, essentially creating a loop. For each control element, we have access to this timer event, but I think it is wiser to keep a single timer event as we are working with single thread processing anyway, make that fast, and read out from the sequencer engine what MIDI message to actually emit. Mutliple various MIDI messages may be emitted, and then that would make some sort of sound in app like ableton.

### MIDI Sync

Grid will be able to receive a midi rx midi clock tick, to sync the internal timer from time to time to external instruments. MIDI sync is a huge thing and problem in the world of audio applications, everyone wants to keep all midi instruments in sync, so that sounds sound nice.

### Back on writing code for this sequencer...
I want to architect the engine first. I believe in figuring out the structure for this project is very important, as I am going to write it AI assisted, so separation of concerns is critical.

The library should have input functions, where we can change parameters which are in the sequence. 

As the grid modules run Lua, I think it would be most efficient to write the code for the sequencer on my macbook first and validate it.

For example it would be great to figure out how we could connect the lua code which could run a timer function with luv rock package and send messages to some sort of http to midi or something else... I am open for easy bridging. I think lua should not do any very low level stuff, like dipping into core audio api and such...


### Note on how clean it should be
Grid's lua engine has access to features such as io, so snapshot taking and file writing can be done like that. There are no helper functions available, plain lua here, so a key-value get and set function or other helper functions are non existent. I think as we will work with tables and table matrixes and other objects here, such helper functions should be extracted from the sequencer library and the sequencer library should require these utilities. I think utility for architecting what info we have to later on show out can be also thought out.

### What make a good sequencer
A sequncer is good if musical results can be achieved fast. If you hit start and notes start to emerge. Randomisation functions within scale, to keep it musical. Slew, slides and glide can add a lot as well: or quickly changing how it is looping. In the end, we have to keep a lot of various states in memory - and then occasionally write those infos on disk for later read back. It is also great to be able to do some changes to a sequence, then revert to the starting point. I think a sequencer can be complicated into oblivion. It would be awesome to be able to pick sequencer features to make it incrementally more advanced. Also if a sequencer can be set up random and then have access to good performance effects which change the sequnce in the moment, then that may be also a valuable thing. What we have with Grid is to be able to have a lot of control in a smal modular package, and a VSN1 module can be extended to control the sequecer even on a one knob per function basis - or if less elements are available, then through shift function on the grid modules do other controls.

### As for start...
Based on this intro document and the attached .pdf manual documents, guide me through how we could ship a library, where features can be picked incrementally (or just enabled, maybe thats wiser architecturally) and have a fun sequencer base. This base then should be controlled with the suite of grid modular controllers, calling various functions over the sequence. Separate the utilites for future projects (possibly we will do more). Once we have primary functionality, then we can move onto specifying the views for the screen. Must mix fun and function.

### Details
- write lua, Grid modules run lua 5.4
- where feasible, write assert test functions for expected inputs, outputs
- keep the code well separated. thrive to keep functions isolated and try to keep them short. Not only ai, but humans should be also to read the code.
- use code patterns which improve performance and utilize garbage collection in lua and support object oriented thinking.. but my background is javascript, nestjs, typescript, so i appreciate easier to read expanded code over shorthands
- hungarianNotationForFunctions() and variables is the design choice
- you can separete feature sets into separate files, if files grow over a lot
- keep memory file in docs with date timecode in title and use markdown within. keep it minimal and concise
- figure out feedback loop for agenting work
